The  output of a manger is the output of the organisational units under his or her supervision or influence. 
You must continually dedicate yourself to retaining your individual competitive advantage.

Nobody owes you a career. You own it as a sole proprietor. You must compete with millions of individuals every day, and everyday you mustenhance your value, hone your competitive advantage, learn, adapt, get out of the way, move from job to job, even from industry to industry if you must and restretch if you need to do so in order to start again. 

The key to survival is to learn to add more value - that ultimately is what this book is about. 

To work more productively, do the following:
- Apply methods of production
- Exercise managerial leverage
- Elicite an athelete's desire for peak performance

When a person is not doing his job, there can be only two reasons for it. The person either can't do it or won't do it; he is either not capable or not motivated. All you can do as a manager is motivate or train. There is nothing else. 

In our business we have to mix knowledge-power people with position-power people daily and together they could affect us for years to come. 

Leverage: Output generated by a specific type of activity. 
Example: 
- Automation is a high leverage activity.

A manager must keep many balls in the air at the same time and shift his energy and attention to activities with highest leverage.

Information Gathering:
The information most useful comes from quick, often verbal exchanges. Verbal sources are the most valuable.
Other way is to visit a particular place in the company and observe what's going on there.

A manager not only gathers information but is also a source of it. He must convey his knowledge to members of his own organization and to other group he influences. Beyond relaying facts, a manger must also communicate his objectives, preiorities, and preferences as they bear on teh way certain tasks are approached.

Decision making: Another managerial activity. Your decision making depends finally on how well you comprehend the facts and issues facing your business. This is why info gathering is so important to manager's life. 
Information gathering is the basis of all other managerial work, which is why I chose so much of my time doing it. 

Managers are role models to subordinates, peers as well as their own supervisors.
A great deal of manager's work has to do with allocation of resources, manpower , money and capital. But most important resource is their own time. 

Manegerial Output = Output of Organization
                  = L1 * A1 + L2 * A2 + .. 
                  Ai is Activity and Li is the leverage

High Leverage Activities:
- When many people are affected by one manager 
- When a person's activity or behavior over a long time is affected by a manager's brief, well focused set of words.
- When a large group's work is affected by an individual supplying a unique, key piece of knowledge or information. 
- A "knowledge-specialist" or the "know-how" manager has tremendous authority and influence on the work of others, and therefore high leverage.

Leverage can also be negative
- Lack of preparaiton
- Deprive other participants of the opportunity to use that time to do something else.
- Managerial meddling: When a supervisor uses his superior knowledge and experience to assume command in a situation rather than subordinate work things out himself. 

Delegation as Leverage
Delegation without follow-through is abdication. You can never wash your hands of a task. Even after you delegate it, you are still responsible for its accomplishment, and monitoring the delegated task. 
Monitoring the progress is must. Frequency of checking with suboordinates should vary depending on how subordinate is performing the task and his experience handling it. 
Manager should only go into details randomly, just enough to try to ensure that the subordinate is moving ahead satisfactorily. 

Applying Production Principles for High Leverage
- Batch similar tasks
- Say "no" at the outset to work beyond your capacity to handle. Remember that your time is your one finite resource, and when you say "yes" to one thing, you are inevitably saying "no" to another.
- Allow "slack" - a bit of looseness in your schedule.

How many subordinates?
- 4 are too few and 10 are too many. 6-8 are good.
---- INSERT DIAGRAM from page 64 here.

Interruption - the palue of managerial work. 
Most common problem - uncontrolled interruptions.
Solution: Create a FAQ




